media Reports say ceasefire talks
between Israel and Hamas are due to
resume in Cairo mediators have been
trying to secure a pause in nearly six
months of fighting in return for the
release of hostages still held by Hamas
which is designated as a terrorist group
by a number of countries the intensified
mediation efforts come after a public
saring of relations between Israel and
its main Ally the United States the
Biden Administration which is facing
election year criticism at home has been
stepping up calls for a break in the
fighting to allow the flow of
humanitarian aid for gaza's
civilians let's get some more analysis
with journalist kareim elari who is in
Cairo as well uh Kareem bring us up to
speed with the latest what can we
confirm about ceasefire talks and what
are the challenges facing both
sides well first as now media reports
that uh as as a sign to create trust
there is an agreement to release the
bodies of two Israeli soldiers in
exchange for an unknown number of pal
Palestinian prisoners that is the
pretext for this negotiations Netanyahu
agreed last Friday to send
representatives from mosad and shim
bit intelligence services to Cairo to
take part in these negotiations uh today
and also there is Israeli media reports
that this time they have some room to
work and to to negotiate there is talk
that during Ramadan both sides came
closer uh but it's not the first time we
hear this we have to see it's clear what
Hamas wants Hamas wants a ceasefire
Hamas wants the withdraw of Israeli
forces from the Gaza Strip and the
return of the many displaced
Palestinians that had to escape to the
South so they can be are able to go to
the north of the Gaza Strip and um a
prisoner exchange of about 40 Israeli
hostages in exchange for 800 prisoners
it seems like this is something Israel
the Israeli side according to Israeli
media reports agreed even that among
them there are about a 100 um prisoners
that convicted for murder murder the
head of mad said that there is now more
flexibility on the Israeli side
especially when it comes to the return
of the displaced uh but the defense
minister says there is no time for
flexibility so there seems to be also
some disagreement on the Israeli side
but to be clear before any of this
happens and it Bears repeating you're
saying that there are preconditions to
those talks let me let me go to the next
question Israel's prime minister
Netanyahu seems very determined to go
into Rafa despite objections from
Washington what are you hearing will
these talks make a
difference well this threat to go into
Rafa of course is the elephant in the
room in the negotiations in in in Cairo
um we have to see that the US agreed uh
now to send more weapons to Israel but
at the same time they indicated that
they would be not very happy with a
direct full-fledge Israeli offensive
against Rafa with its 1.4 million people
living there uh according to Israeli
Channel 12 there is preparations for
this uh
offensive to isolate Rafa to EV to start
to evacuate the idea to evacuate
civilians they even it said both 40,000
tens from China for that but uh it's
also we have to not forget this talk
about the offensive is also some point
to make pressure on Hamas in these
negotiations got it that's a journalist
aim alwari from Cairo in Egypt many
thanks you're
welcome